A lot of people have told us that
sometimes Warps UI looks cluttered or
heavy, and I totally get it. Sometimes
you want that simple CLI look. So, here
are some tips to make Warps UI feel a
lot more minimal. The easiest way is to
open the command palette with command P
on Mac or control shiftP on Windows and
Linux. And from there, you can start
typing disable. You'll see options like
disabling auto suggestions to turn off
inline suggestions, disable block
dividers to remove the lines between
commands, disable voice input to hide
the mic icon, disable active AI so I
don't get this ghost prompt here, or
disable completion so I don't get the
completion menu popping up by default. I
can also disable the Vim status bar if I
don't want this little icon here and I
don't care about using Vim shortcuts to
edit my input. I can disable tab
indicators to hide these colored tab
markers that tell me what's going on in
each of my tapped sessions. I can
disable dimming inactive pane so that my
split pane UI looks more like this
instead of this. There's probably a lot
of other settings which you can discover
in the command palette by just typing in
disable and seeing what pops up. But
doing that alone will clean a lot of
things and warp up. You can also go
ahead and switch your theme. There are a
bunch of themes that probably make your
UI feel very cluttered and messy. And I
personally like this Adterbury theme for
its simple, calm, gray tones. If you
want an even more classic feel, I would
recommend switching to the classic
prompt instead of the universal prompt.
The universal prompt is built for AI
features. So, it gives you things like
slash commands, voice input, images,
context, and agent mode. But if you
don't need that, classic prompt gives
you a very stripped down terminal feel.
And you can even go into the prompt
customizer and toggle exactly which
chips appear. So if you only want a
simple file path, you can do that.
Another small tweak is that you can set
Warp to only show the tab bar on hover,
which keeps your tabs out of sight until
you really need them. And if after all
of that, Warp still feels too busy to
you, you can always just disable AI
entirely. This removes a lot of extra UI
elements that exist to support AI
workflows. It basically turns Warp back
into a clean, no AI, no frrills terminal
experience. Of course, you'll lose the
AI features, but if you're looking for
speed and simplicity over everything
else, this might be the perfect setup
for you.